CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing

We would really love for you to contribute in any way to SLIC Watch!

When contributing to this repository, it would be great if you could first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository.

Note that we have a [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## Where to Contribute

There are are a number of areas where you can contribute right now.

1. Have feedback? Did you find a bug? Let us know in the _Issues_.
2. We may label some of the open issues with the "help wanted" label. You can see them [here](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22). Let us know in the issue if you are planning to work on it so we can share ideas.
3. Sometimes we will label issues as "good first issue". If you are new to open source or just to some of the areas this project covers, these issues are a great way to get started. The list is [here](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

## Pull Request Process

See the [pull request template](./docs/pull_request_template.md).

## How to add support for new resources into SLIC Watch

For every AWS service there are metrics and dimensions that have to be handled. SLIC Watch comes with sane defaults. When we want to create alarms and dashboards we need to define metrics which we need in projects with default value in the [default-config.yml](./serverless-plugin/default-config.yaml). You can configure what you don’t like or disable specific dashboards or alarms. And we create the alarm structure in [alarms.js](./serverless-plugin/alarms.js) module. However keep in mind, every single alarm module is firstly handled in a separate module. We handle dashboard in [dashboard.js](./serverless-plugin/dashboard.js) module. 

[config-schema.js](./serverless-plugin/config-schema.js) is the validation schema of [serverless.yml](./serverless-test-project/serverless.yml) module. It's a JSON schema validation using the ajv npm module We use it to validate custom.slicWatch.You can optionally override part of the configuration in custom.slicWatch if you want to. Because the default configuration is there so you don’t have to specify all resources. In config-schema we can  see supportedAlarms, supportedWidgets have to be filled with valid metrics.

We highly recommend to do unit-test after contributing a new service support. A common gotcha can be forgetable during the unit-test the [cloudformation-template-stack.json](./serverless-plugin/tests/resources/cloudformation-template-stack.json) has to be modified.

Commit message:

Alter new resource contribution so it's a list of steps

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing

We would really love for you to contribute in any way to SLIC Watch!

When contributing to this repository, it would be great if you could first discuss the change you wish to make via issue, email, or any other method with the owners of this repository.

Note that we have a [code of conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). Please follow it in all your interactions with the project.

## Where to Contribute

There are are a number of areas where you can contribute right now.

1. Have feedback? Did you find a bug? Let us know in the _Issues_.
2. We may label some of the open issues with the "help wanted" label. You can see them [here](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22help+wanted%22). Let us know in the issue if you are planning to work on it so we can share ideas.
3. Sometimes we will label issues as "good first issue". If you are new to open source or just to some of the areas this project covers, these issues are a great way to get started. The list is [here](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/issues?utf8=%E2%9C%93&q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+label%3A%22good+first+issue%22).

## Pull Request Process

See the [pull request template](./docs/pull_request_template.md).

## How to add support for new resources into SLIC Watch

For every AWS service, there are metrics and dimensions that can be observed. SLIC Watch should come with sane defaults. When we want to create alarms and dashboards, you need to identify the metrics that are most important for visualisation in dashboards and alerting through alarms.

The following is a checklist of steps that must be followed to add support for alarms and dashboards relating to a new AWS resource.

1. Identify the metrics and statistics for the service. The set of metrics you want to alert on might be different to those you wish to visualise in the dashboard.
2. Update the [serverless-test-project](./serverless-test-project) to add an example of the kind of resource you want to monitor with SLIC Watch.  We have a separate YAML file for Serverless Framework v2 and v3, both of which include a common [resources file](./serverless-test-project/sls-resources.yml). You may need to update that file in addition to [serverless.yml](./serverless-test-project/serverless.yml) and [serverless-v2.yml](./serverless-test-project/serverless-v2.yml).
3. Unit tests use a compiled CloudFormation stack generated from the `serverless-test-project`. This needs to be manually generated for each new supported feature.
 a. Once you have added the new resource to `serverless-test-project`, compile the project to generate the CloudFormation JSON by running `serverless package`
 b. Copy `serverless-test-project/.serverless/cloudformation-template-update-stack.json` to [serverless-plugin/tests/resources/cloudformation-template-stack.json](serverless-plugin/tests/resources/cloudformation-template-stack.json`).
 c. Manually edit `serverless-plugin/tests/resources/cloudformation-template-stack.json` to remove any `AWS::CloudWatch::Dashboard` and `AWS::CloudWatch::Alarm` resources. This is important since we need the unit tests to generate these resources, so they cannot exist in the source template
4. Add alarms:
 a. Create a new `alarms-<service>.js` module in [serverless-plugin](./serverless-plugin/). One of the existing `alarms-<service>.js` modules may be used as a template.
 b. Update [serverless-plugin/alarms.js](./serverless-plugin/alarms.js) to wire in the new `alarms-<service>` module.
 c. Create a unit test for the new alarm module and update [alarms.test.js](./serverless-plugin/tests/alarms.test.js) to add coverage for the new resource. This will use the CloudFormation template you updated above.
5. Add dashboard widgets:
 a. Add support for the new dashboard widgets in [serverless-plugin/dashboard.js](./serverless-plugin/dashboard.js)
 b. Update [dashboard.test.js](./serverless-plugin/tests/dashboard.test.js) to add coverage for the new resource
6. Update SLIC Watch configuration support:
 a. Add default values for your resource's alarm and dashboard configuration in [default-config.yml](./serverless-plugin/default-config.yaml).
 b. Update the JSON schema for SLIC Watch configuration ([config-schema.js](./serverless-plugin/config-schema.js)). Here, you can define the supported alarm metrics and widgets.
7. Manually (or using automation) integration test the new feature
 a. The method will vary based on the resource type, but the idea is to trigger alarms and generate metrics to validate that both alarms and dashboards are working as expected. You can use the resource you added to `serverless-test-project` for this.
 b. For example integration tests, see the Python-based notebooks in [testing](./testing).
8. Update the README.md:
 a. Include the updated default configuration
 b. Add the new resource type to the list of features
 c. Update the dashboard screenshots to include your new widget with metrics shown (using Dark Mode in the CloudWatch Console!)
