README.md, before:

# slic-watch

[![serverless](http://public.serverless.com/badges/v3.svg)](http://www.serverless.com)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/serverless-slic-watch-plugin)](https://npm.im/serverless-slic-watch-plugin)
[![Build](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/fourTheorem/slic-watch/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/fourTheorem/slic-watch)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)


SLIC Watch provides a CloudWatch Dashboard and Alarms for:

 1. AWS Lambda
 2. API Gateway
 3. Step Functions
 4. DynamoDB Tables
 5. Kinesis Data Streams
 6. SQS Queues (Coming soon)

Currently, SLIC Watch is available as a Serverless Framework plugin.

## Installation

```
npm install serverless-slic-watch-plugin --save-dev
```

## Configuration


The `topic` configuration must be configured with the ARN of an SNS Topic.
Alarm configuration is _cascading_. This means that configuration properties are automatically propagated from parent to children nodes (unless an override is present at the given node).
Supported options along with their defaults are shown below.


```yaml
# ...

custom:
  slicWatch:
    topic: SNS_TOPIC_ARN

    alarms:
      enabled: true
      Period: 60
      EvaluationPeriods: 1
      TreatMissingData: notBreaching
      ComparisonOperator: GreaterThanThreshold
      Lambda: # Lambda Functions
        Errors:
          Threshold: 0
          Statistic: Sum
        ThrottlesPc: # Throttles are evaluated as a percentage of invocations
          Threshold: 0
        DurationPc: # Duration is evaluated as a percentage of the function timeout
          Threshold: 95
          Statistic: Maximum
        Invocations: # No invocation alarms are created by default. Override threshold to create alarms
          enabled: false # Note: this one requires both `enabled: true` and `Threshold: someValue` to be effectively enabled
          Threshold: null
          Statistic: Sum
        IteratorAge:
          Threshold: 10000
          Statistic: Maximum
      ApiGateway: # API Gateway REST APIs
        5XXError:
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 0
        4XXError:
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 0.05
        Latency:
          ExtendedStatistic: p99
          Threshold: 5000
      States: # Step Functions
        Statistic: Sum
        ExecutionsThrottled:
          Threshold: 0
        ExecutionsFailed:
          Threshold: 0
        ExecutionsTimedOut:
          Threshold: 0
      DynamoDB:
        # Consumed read/write capacity units are not alarmed. These should either
        # be part of an auto-scaling configuration for provisioned mode or should be automatically
        # avoided for on-demand mode. Instead, we rely on persistent throttling
        # to alert failures in these scenarios.
        # Throttles can occur in normal operation and are handled with retries. Threshold should
        # therefore be configured to provide meaningful alarms based on higher than average throttling.
        Statistic: Sum
        ReadThrottleEvents:
          Threshold: 10
        WriteThrottleEvents:
          Threshold: 10
        UserErrors:
          Threshold: 0
        SystemErrors:
          Threshold: 0
      Kinesis:
        GetRecords.IteratorAgeMilliseconds:
          Statistic: Maximum
          Threshold: 10000
        ReadProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
          Statistic: Maximum
          Threshold: 0
        WriteProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
          Statistic: Maximum
          Threshold: 0
        PutRecord.Success:
          ComparisonOperator: LessThanThreshold
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 1
        PutRecords.Success:
          ComparisonOperator: LessThanThreshold
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 1
        GetRecords.Success:
          ComparisonOperator: LessThanThreshold
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 1

    dashboard:
      timeRange:
        # For possible 'start' and 'end' values, see
        # https:# docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/CloudWatch-Dashboard-Body-Structure.html
        start: -PT3H
      metricPeriod: 300
      widgets:
        metricPeriod: 300
        width: 8
        height: 6
        Lambda:
          # Metrics per Lambda Function
          Errors:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          Throttles:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          Duration:
            Statistic: ['Average', 'p95', 'Maximum']
          Invocations:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          ConcurrentExecutions:
            Statistic: ['Maximum']
          IteratorAge:
            Statistic: ['Maximum']
        ApiGateway:
          5XXError:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          4XXError:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          Latency:
            Statistic: ['Average', 'p95']
          Count:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
        States:
          # Step Functions
          ExecutionsFailed:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          ExecutionsThrottled:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          ExecutionsTimedOut:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
        DynamoDB:
          # Tables and GSIs
          ReadThrottleEvents:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          WriteThrottleEvents:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
        Kinesis:
          # Kinesis Data Streams
          GetRecords.IteratorAgeMilliseconds:
            Statistic: ['Maximum']
          ReadProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          WriteProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          PutRecord.Success:
            Statistic: ['Average']
          PutRecords.Success:
            Statistic: ['Average']
          GetRecords.Success:
            Statistic: ['Average']
        
```

An example project is provided for reference: [serverless-test-project](./serverless-test-project)

## Releasing a new version

In order to release a new version of the project:

  - update the package version in the top level `package.json`
  - run `npm run lerna:sync` to synchronise that version across all the sub packages
  - push these changes
  - draft a new release in GitHub (the CI will do the publish to npm)

## References

### Other Projects

1. [serverless-plugin-aws-alerts](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-plugin-aws-alerts)
2. [Real World Serverless Application - Serverless Operations](https://github.com/awslabs/realworld-serverless-application/wiki/Serverless-Operations)
3. [CDK Patterns - The CloudWatch Dashboard](https://github.com/cdk-patterns/serverless/blob/main/the-cloudwatch-dashboard/README.md)

### Reading

1. [AWS Well Architected Serverless Applications Lens](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/serverless-applications-lens/welcome.html)
2. [How to Monitor Lambda with CloudWatch Metrics - Yan Cui](https://lumigo.io/serverless-monitoring-guide/how-to-monitor-lambda-with-cloudwatch-metrics/)

## LICENSE

Apache - [LICENSE](./LICENSE)

Commit message:

Add note on pricing for CloudWatch

README.md, after:

# slic-watch

[![serverless](http://public.serverless.com/badges/v3.svg)](http://www.serverless.com)
[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/serverless-slic-watch-plugin)](https://npm.im/serverless-slic-watch-plugin)
[![Build](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/fourTheorem/slic-watch/actions/workflows/build.yml)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/fourTheorem/slic-watch/badge.svg)](https://coveralls.io/github/fourTheorem/slic-watch)
[![JavaScript Style Guide](https://img.shields.io/badge/code_style-standard-brightgreen.svg)](https://standardjs.com)


SLIC Watch provides a CloudWatch Dashboard and Alarms for:

 1. AWS Lambda
 2. API Gateway
 3. Step Functions
 4. DynamoDB Tables
 5. Kinesis Data Streams
 6. SQS Queues (Coming soon)

Currently, SLIC Watch is available as a Serverless Framework plugin.

## Installation

```
npm install serverless-slic-watch-plugin --save-dev
```

## Configuration


The `topic` configuration must be configured with the ARN of an SNS Topic.
Alarm configuration is _cascading_. This means that configuration properties are automatically propagated from parent to children nodes (unless an override is present at the given node).
Supported options along with their defaults are shown below.


```yaml
# ...

custom:
  slicWatch:
    topic: SNS_TOPIC_ARN

    alarms:
      enabled: true
      Period: 60
      EvaluationPeriods: 1
      TreatMissingData: notBreaching
      ComparisonOperator: GreaterThanThreshold
      Lambda: # Lambda Functions
        Errors:
          Threshold: 0
          Statistic: Sum
        ThrottlesPc: # Throttles are evaluated as a percentage of invocations
          Threshold: 0
        DurationPc: # Duration is evaluated as a percentage of the function timeout
          Threshold: 95
          Statistic: Maximum
        Invocations: # No invocation alarms are created by default. Override threshold to create alarms
          enabled: false # Note: this one requires both `enabled: true` and `Threshold: someValue` to be effectively enabled
          Threshold: null
          Statistic: Sum
        IteratorAge:
          Threshold: 10000
          Statistic: Maximum
      ApiGateway: # API Gateway REST APIs
        5XXError:
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 0
        4XXError:
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 0.05
        Latency:
          ExtendedStatistic: p99
          Threshold: 5000
      States: # Step Functions
        Statistic: Sum
        ExecutionsThrottled:
          Threshold: 0
        ExecutionsFailed:
          Threshold: 0
        ExecutionsTimedOut:
          Threshold: 0
      DynamoDB:
        # Consumed read/write capacity units are not alarmed. These should either
        # be part of an auto-scaling configuration for provisioned mode or should be automatically
        # avoided for on-demand mode. Instead, we rely on persistent throttling
        # to alert failures in these scenarios.
        # Throttles can occur in normal operation and are handled with retries. Threshold should
        # therefore be configured to provide meaningful alarms based on higher than average throttling.
        Statistic: Sum
        ReadThrottleEvents:
          Threshold: 10
        WriteThrottleEvents:
          Threshold: 10
        UserErrors:
          Threshold: 0
        SystemErrors:
          Threshold: 0
      Kinesis:
        GetRecords.IteratorAgeMilliseconds:
          Statistic: Maximum
          Threshold: 10000
        ReadProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
          Statistic: Maximum
          Threshold: 0
        WriteProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
          Statistic: Maximum
          Threshold: 0
        PutRecord.Success:
          ComparisonOperator: LessThanThreshold
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 1
        PutRecords.Success:
          ComparisonOperator: LessThanThreshold
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 1
        GetRecords.Success:
          ComparisonOperator: LessThanThreshold
          Statistic: Average
          Threshold: 1

    dashboard:
      timeRange:
        # For possible 'start' and 'end' values, see
        # https:# docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/APIReference/CloudWatch-Dashboard-Body-Structure.html
        start: -PT3H
      metricPeriod: 300
      widgets:
        metricPeriod: 300
        width: 8
        height: 6
        Lambda:
          # Metrics per Lambda Function
          Errors:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          Throttles:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          Duration:
            Statistic: ['Average', 'p95', 'Maximum']
          Invocations:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          ConcurrentExecutions:
            Statistic: ['Maximum']
          IteratorAge:
            Statistic: ['Maximum']
        ApiGateway:
          5XXError:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          4XXError:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          Latency:
            Statistic: ['Average', 'p95']
          Count:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
        States:
          # Step Functions
          ExecutionsFailed:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          ExecutionsThrottled:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          ExecutionsTimedOut:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
        DynamoDB:
          # Tables and GSIs
          ReadThrottleEvents:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          WriteThrottleEvents:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
        Kinesis:
          # Kinesis Data Streams
          GetRecords.IteratorAgeMilliseconds:
            Statistic: ['Maximum']
          ReadProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          WriteProvisionedThroughputExceeded:
            Statistic: ['Sum']
          PutRecord.Success:
            Statistic: ['Average']
          PutRecords.Success:
            Statistic: ['Average']
          GetRecords.Success:
            Statistic: ['Average']
```

An example project is provided for reference: [serverless-test-project](./serverless-test-project)

## A note on CloudWatch cost

This plugin creates additional CloudWatch resources that, apart from a limited free tier, have an associated cost.
Depending on what you enable, SLIC Watch creates one dashboard and multiple alarms. The number of each depend on the number of resources in your stack and the number of stacks you have.

Check out the AWS [CloudWatch Pricing](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/) page to understand the cost impact of creating CloudWatch resources.

## Releasing a new version

In order to release a new version of the project:

  - update the package version in the top level `package.json`
  - run `npm run lerna:sync` to synchronise that version across all the sub packages
  - push these changes
  - draft a new release in GitHub (the CI will do the publish to npm)

## References

### Other Projects

1. [serverless-plugin-aws-alerts](https://www.npmjs.com/package/serverless-plugin-aws-alerts)
2. [Real World Serverless Application - Serverless Operations](https://github.com/awslabs/realworld-serverless-application/wiki/Serverless-Operations)
3. [CDK Patterns - The CloudWatch Dashboard](https://github.com/cdk-patterns/serverless/blob/main/the-cloudwatch-dashboard/README.md)

### Reading

1. [AWS Well Architected Serverless Applications Lens](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/serverless-applications-lens/welcome.html)
2. [How to Monitor Lambda with CloudWatch Metrics - Yan Cui](https://lumigo.io/serverless-monitoring-guide/how-to-monitor-lambda-with-cloudwatch-metrics/)

## LICENSE

Apache - [LICENSE](./LICENSE)
